Telegram: t.me/King_subtitle
Merlin Emrys has returned to the land of the living.
I had a vision.
Two dragons came forth to battle one another.
The dragons you have seen are your enemies.
White for the Saxon horde. red for the true sons of Britain whose father you murdered for your crown.
Vortigern!
Thus ends the reign of Vortigern. High King of Britain.
Take heart. you people of the island of the mighty.
Merlin?
Merlin.
To see you after all these years.
But you have not altered a whit.
I had this sword crafted for my father by the High King's own smith.
Perhaps it's best to leave it here.
You are the flower of your race.
'Tis a great thing to be a king. hawk.
But there is authority of a kind even kings must bend to.
I've known Merlin a very long time.
I would have you my counselor.
Very well. Aurelius.
Perhaps you have the makings of a king after all.
David. you've come home.
Hello. mother.
Merlin.
I have seen so many.
There will be no victory without the kings of Britain by our side.
So I need every single one of them to defeat Hengist.
You switcher. and I the thrush.
Dis naear 'l' can. your bondage has lasted nigh on dinner.
May you will defend them from Harrow-witcher.
Fool!
Are you so heavy with drink that you fail to recognize the spawn of Vortigern?
Prince Pasen.
Forgive Aldwin's impertinence.
He will be punished.
Word from your father?
My father is dead.
What do you want?
My father is dead. and I am his heir. High King of the Britons.
And yet you ride here unannounced. no honor guard. no war-band.
I did not know I needed a war-band at my back to meet with an ally.
You do if you're going to watch him shit.
The sons of Constance have murdered my father. and now they claim his crown.
And you want me to help you take it back.
They will not be content until they have all of Britain in their grasp.
All of Britain.
Even now. they turn their eyes east to the Saxon coast.
Let us march against these usurpers before they march against you.
Why do I need you?
You swore to uphold my family's claim when my father let you settle these lands.
Our pact was sealed in blood.
You will be held to it.
Son of Vortigern is right.
A pact sealed in blood is to be honored.
Even to death.
When the new man had returned.
Ffoster!
He had backed the way he'd trodden.
From over that front border.
Ffoster. he had gripped the...
From me now!
Hail the Fisher King.
Merlin!
And that's when I saw him.
Sat on the rock by the riverbed. alone. shining as bright as the dawn.
And we are most grateful to you. Pelius. even as our hopes waned.
You did not give up these many years.
My lady.
And you. my holy friend.
How did you come to be in my grandson's company after all this time?
Providence. great king.
The divine hand.
Merlin found me prisoner of High King Vortigern.
Prisoner?
A king who holds hostage a servant of the Most High gambles with his life.
Gamble Vortigern lost.
King Avalak. I have been remiss.
May I present to you Uther. second son of Constance. and his older brother. Aurelius.
The sons of Constance.
I see.
Forgive me.
My brother and I were loath to interrupt your happy reunion.
Aurelius has defeated the usurper Vortigern.
He is by right of lineage and victory. High King of Ynys Prydain.
If I do not fall to the axe of a Saxon first. or the ambitions of a petty king.
My brother surely meant no disrespect. King Avalak.
And yet he speaks truly.
This land is in a welter of confusion.
There are more kings than sheep. more princes than crows on a battlefield. all seeking to snatch what they can. when they can. without a care for who suffers.
Until this island is ruled by one who wields both justice and mercy. there will be no peace.
Aurelius's life is in danger until the kings of Britain recognize his claim.
It is my hope he could find sanctuary here while I ride to rally what friends we have left.
While we ride to rally your friends.
Uther.
To ensure Merlin is not remiss pushing your claim with other courts.
Right. Merlin?
Very well. Uther. if you prefer nights in the saddle to the comfort of Avalak's palace.
You will not be staying. then?
I'm sorry. mother.
My people have seen enough of war and death.
The High King of Britain will be safe within these walls.
To a future of peace.
Remember what they did to me. Merlin.
You fuss over me like a child. though other men call me immortal.
The Fisher King's sword.
Your sword.
I thought it lost.
Yet it has been here. waiting for you.
The sword of a High King.
Aurelius has a sword. the sword of Britain.
I do not offer it to Aurelius.
I'm sorry. mother.
I cannot accept it.
Whatever the future may hold. I cannot take up that sword again.
Then I will pray you have the strength to keep your vow.
I wish you were not leaving so soon.
Besides. the fish are always on their best behavior when you are here.
What was it like. Merlin. to be insane?
To be alone with God?
Is that who you think I was alone with?
Who else?
I would dearly love to spend but a moment in my Lord's presence.
You are fortunate among men. Merlin.
Go.
I have been greedy with your time.
We will discuss these things again when you return.
You fear for your sins. grandfather?
But surely your sins are no greater than any other man's.
I had forgotten how much you see with those golden eyes. hawk.
Yet in truth. my sins are too numerous to count.
I gave life to Morgan.
I've seen her.
Morgan.
In the fire. in the stars.
I did not know if God was with me in Caledon all these many years. grandfather.
But I know Morgan was.
Trust in Iesu. hawk.
He is the only hope for men like us. if hope we have.
So tell me about this place. Maridunum.
Built by the Romans in the heart of a plentiful valley. not far from the sea.
Your steward has a nasty habit of speaking on your behalf. Merlin.
If he were mine. I would have him flogged for impertinence.
Pelius speaks as he serves. of his own free will.
So you would have him believe.
Are you suggesting the Emrys has me spellbound?
Your words. boy. not mine.
You surprise me. Uther.
I didn't take you for one who believed in magic.
When a man catches the gaze of a beautiful woman. is that not a form of magic?
Or when a king. through cunning and deceit. wrests fealty from his people?
Is that not sorcery of a kind?
I see you.
I see you. Merlin Emrys.
My name is not known to you. but last night. the gods commanded me to find you. Merlin.
You must go to the east.
But the east will lead you to find your doom. Merlin.
You have only a year to win the love of your people.
Why do you hesitate?
You know what you must do.
Master?
What is it?
A delightful place.
Who's your business here?
I've come to seek a home I once knew.
And what home is that?
The last time I was here. Pendaran the Red Sword was king.
Merlin.
Let them in at once.
See to their horses.
The same raid that took Melwas took the town.
The chief fact to my father tried to save what he could. but there wasn't much left.
That was but the beginning of our troubles.
The same story is told throughout these lands.
I fear a greater threat is coming.
Yes. it's a different world since... well. since you've been away.
Will you sit at our table. my lord?
Most kind.
Why does your friend get the king's seat?
Because Merlin is the rightful king of Maridunum.
Allow me to fill your cup. my lord.
We be marked!
This beast led me deep into the hills. but I could not give up the chase.
These days. it's rare when I get occasion to knock an arrow.
A fine prize. Meirig ap Tewdrig.
Son.
Meet our guests: Uther. Pelius. and Merlin Emrys.
I must say. the brewer's art has reached new heights since I last held a cup such as this.
This draft is worthy of any king.
You shall have a butt of it to take with you.
Yes. when you've concluded your business here.
What is your business?
Perhaps our business is best discussed in the light of day.
We are here to garner support for my brother. Aurelius. the High King of Britain.
High King?
Vortigern has already claimed that title.
Vortigern no longer has need of it.
Well. I congratulate you on your victory.
Over an old man already exhausted and sore beset.
The greater challenge lies ahead.
The Saxons.
And a host of lesser kings who think themselves eminently qualified to bear the crown.
And they will have no choice but to fall in line.
Won't they?
Hear me. Tewdrig.
The Saxon Hengist has assembled the greatest war host ever seen in the island of the mighty. and before the summer is through. he means to take the throne.
And he will have it if we are too busy squabbling amongst ourselves to take up arms against him.
We have arms.
We have horses and men who can use them.
Meirig.
Am I not the commander of our army?
Yes. an honor you insist on squandering at every turn.
Choice to have on your own but by...
Cease!
The day grows long. and I am not a young man.
If we may presume upon your hospitality a while longer?
Yes. I shall prepare some rooms for you and your men.
Perhaps the Emrys would prefer to stay in his old quarters.
The king's quarters?
Yes. should he wish to.
We insist.
Thank you. my lady.
Hurry in.
There you are. my darling.
You must hurry along to your studies with Kellius.
I don't want to study.
You must. if you are to advance in your learning.
Remember. Aurian. your mother knows what's best for you.
Off with you.
Vortigern is dead.
Are we alone and undefended. father?
Should we not seek alliances for the welfare of our kingdom?
If we were to appeal to Vortigern?
This tower fell to the sons of Constance not two weeks ago.
How do you know this?
No doubt Aurelius will claim the throne for himself.
The soil of these lands is soaked in the blood of would-be kings.
Perhaps we should consider pledging our support to Aurelius.
My dear lord. have you forgotten the deal we made with the Saxon chief?
How could I forget. mother. when I so strongly opposed our alliance with those savages?
Is Hengist a savage?
He fights for the interest of his kind. just as Aurelius does.
But we are Britons.
We should support our people.
Are they our people?
Only a moment ago. you were bemoaning the fact that we were all but forgotten by them.
But what do I know of these things?
I'm merely a wife and a mother.
Still. I cannot help but wonder if there is not a greater strategic advantage for you in the current arrangement.
You could be a most valuable ally to Hengist.
The Saxon?
The future is Saxon.
I trust you slept well. Uther.
A soldier always sleeps with one eye open.
That sounds inconvenient.
Not as inconvenient as a knife in the back.
Come. we're all friends here.
Though many an enemy they came in the guise of a friend. Merlin.
Ah. my Lord Merlin.
I wonder if I might have a word with you.
In private.
Of course.
Do keep Uther out of trouble.
Shall we seek out a morsel to eat?
What is this?
A cup of your famous mead. friend.
We have no mead here.
Only wine.
Then a cup of your famous wine.
They water it down.
The Roman way.
But in good measure. it serves its purpose.
Has the warband of Maridunum spent all its days drinking rather than training?
But you see. we are training.
Right here. in the darkness of this hovel.
With nothing to slake our thirst but this sorry excuse for wine. eh?
To your safe return.
After such a long absence.
Forgive me if I know not how to receive you.
This is your realm. and rightly so. but I have been king here these many years.
And your father and his father before you.
Yes.
And your son is next in line to the throne.
Meric is more interested in hunting and drinking than in the affairs of our kingdom.
And yet. he is your battle chief.
It is a wonder how he has time for leisure. given the frequency of the raids.
Yours is a fruitful land. Taldric.
Yet your fields are stripped.
Your walls are broken.
Provisions are strained. even at the King's table.
At whose hand do you suffer this injustice?
Not the Saxons. surely.
For you would not have lived to tell the tale.
Morkant of the Belgae.
He's been bleeding the neighboring lands of grain and cattle for the better part of a year.
Like a ravenous bear. tent on slumbering through the long winter.
Why?
He knows war with the Saxon is coming.
And he intends to wait it out with ample provisions to spare.
And you allow him to take from you.
His men outnumber us two to one.
So you let your people starve.
I am not willing to lead my people to destruction.
It is because you're not willing to lead them that their destruction is at hand.
We cannot fight him.
But fight him we would.
We'd rather suffer the sword opposing that snake than let him take what's rightfully ours.
You've told your father as much?
My father is too proud to heed our counsel.
I'm ashamed. Merthin.
I admit it.
I saw no other way.
I often question whether I'm worthy to wear the torc.
If I am a king.
not a very good one.
My father must have good reason to let this insult go unanswered.
No king would suffer such humiliation mildly.
But whatever his reason. it would not matter for long.
My family has ruled this kingdom for the last three generations.
Now Merdhyn returns to claim his throne and we can hardly stand in his way.
He is but one man.
What?
Do you not know?
Painted by a fairy woman many years ago. or so the story is told.
They say Merdhyn slew 70 men with his own hands within these very gates.
At Cathey. he slew 500.
No man is capable of such a thing.
No mortal man.
They say when the Awen falls upon him.
He is given strength from heaven.
The world stops.
None can stand before him.
I can assure you. friends.
the only thing that matters in battle is brute strength.
Magic is for druids and bored women.
Perhaps.
But he is legend in these lands.
He is more than a king.
He is nearly an otherworldly being.
He will take the torc from my father and declare himself High King before he is through.
And either you. nor the Saxons. nor all the armies of Britain and Armorica can hinder him.
Unless we stop him here and now.
You must listen to me. Uther.
Out of my way.
Steward.
I bested you once before.
Don't make me do it again.
You had the element of surprise before.
Not this time.
He thought that was my only surprise.
You would attack an unarmed man?
Stop this. Uther.
You risk ruining the Empress's work.
That's exactly what I intend to do.
Oh. no.
Uther!
Stand up. King Taldric.
You are right that you've failed your people.
You've let fear rule your heart and govern your actions.
And I do indeed have every right to reclaim my kingship and take back what is lawfully mine.
But I deem it best to let my claim lapse.
Too many years have passed for me to take back my throne.
Merdhyn will not be king again in Maridunum.
Provided you pledge your support to Aurelius.
You have my word.
Are you quite well. Uther?
Just short of breath. is all.
My warband will not fight for Aurelius while Morkant threatens our homes.
Well then it's a good thing we have the Battle Chief of Britain to bring the Belgae to heel.
I'm afraid I must decline.
Uther?
I will join the fight against the Morkant.
However. only as a simple soldier.
A cunning strategy. Uther.
If we survive it.
There's nothing like a brisk ride to revive a man.
May Jesu receive your own with mercy.
Who are they?
Britons.
From the villages along our eastern border.
The Saxon moves south and west. killing and plundering.
They rarely leave survivors.
But when they do. we do what we can to lend aid.
Care for the dying?
When you could prevent their deaths?
We did what we could.
No.
No. no. you could have fought.
What strength you think we have is an illusion.
Each year our numbers decline.
Not a child has been born to us since.
Our people are not long for this world.
You have weapons like none have seen.
Armor to stop the fiercest Saxon blade.
As king. my duty is to my people.
I cannot fight your war for you. Aurelius. no matter how just the cause.
We are too few.
Where are the Saxons now?
Lord is in line for the throne after all.
And a fine king he will make. my son.
But who are we if not the people of our word?
They say Hengist makes his men fight to the death for his amusement.
You must not believe everything you hear.
Aurelius. on the other hand. is of noble blood.
A diplomat.
Lot has a point.
Is not Aurelius more fit to lead?
Who knows who will rule these lands when all is said and done?
But if it is your desire to break faith with the Saxons. then who am I to oppose you?
But I admit I do worry how he will receive you if word comes to him of your dealings with Hengist.
Yes.
Yes. we must not have him taking you for a traitor.
A traitor?
I had not thought of that.
Surely anyone suspected of conspiring with the Saxons would be shown no mercy.
I'm sure you'll make the right decision.
Pray to your God. Merlin.
It isn't much of a plan.
My God hears the prayers of all who call on his name.
Something happened to your eye.
You would ride to the village's aid alone?
I'll try.
You are a good man. son of Constance.
But foolish.
What would you have me do?
What kind of king would I be if I let my people be slaughtered?
A king who knows his limitations.
There will be other battles. Aurelius.
You are one man.
You don't even know the country.
I'm not above asking you to point me in the right direction.
I have only one thing to offer my people.
Everything.
Our soldiers cannot ride with you to Rianfa.
Perhaps they will escort their princess on a ride through our easternmost holdings.
Milady.
But we cannot leave our territory. Aurelius.
If you choose to engage the Saxon. you do it alone.
Stop there.
What is your business here?
You Belgae grow fat from the grain plundered from the fields of Maridunum.
And?
And we're taking it back.
No one need die today.
Tell your king. Merdhyn Emrys demands an audience.
My king is not so easily summoned.
I do not intend to make it easy.
If I do not return.
tell my brother I died a noble death.
Forgive me. my lady.
Don't thank me yet.
By the time this night is through.
we may both be banished from the Summerlands.
Whoever you are.
you've chosen a rather inopportune time to visit.
I'm enjoying my supper.
You know very well who I am. Morkant.
I know who you claim to be.
But why should I take your word for it?
I come with an offer of peace from Uther.
Battle Chief of Britain and brother of High King Aurelius himself.
There'll be no peace in these lands 'til we're all dust.
Or until the kings of Britain are united as one.
If you are the son of Taliesin.
your wisdom is exaggerated.
You ride with a force half the size of my own against a fortified position.
My men will cut down your army in short order.
If they have not already.
You make war against your brother kings while the Saxon threatens the doom of our people.
Who is my brother?
Who are my people?
I am king of the Belgae.
No one else is my concern.
And how will you defend the Belgae when the Saxon horde marches across your fields?
When was the last time you stood with a naked blade in your hand under the blast of the Saxon war horn. while a whole host of Saxon berserkers flew toward you over the battleground?
I will be well supplied after I march across every kingdom deserted by kings anxious to fight alongside your Battle Chief Uther and his fool brother in their fool war.
That is where you are wrong.
There is to be no war.
Uther himself has determined not to engage the Saxon until you return what you have plundered and pledged fealty to Aurelius.
What?
Stay our archers.
Call our warriors back behind the walls.
Now!
Your plundering is at an end. Morkant.
You have abused your power.
And now it is time for you to make amends.
If you do not.
Aurelius will continue to raise his army.
But it will not be the Saxon he rides against.
My daughter has long had a mind of her own.
And I have all but given up attempting to restrain it.
But you who mean to make yourself high king should know better.
If I do not allow my conscience to guide me.
I am unworthy of the crown.
You put my people at risk.
Your people are at risk already. King Evelake.
And will be as long as the Saxons have a foothold in this land.
Father. the Britons that survived the raid have been brought to the palace.
I'm needed.
You cannot deliver your people from this threat.
if you throw your own life away. Aurelius.
A king must sometimes make terrible choices.
I was foolish.
I know that.
In truth. I'm not ready for what is ahead.
The battle against Vortigern was...
Short.
Decisive.
I have little enough experience with war.
That is abundantly clear.
In truth.
it was your daughter who saved my life.
Yes.
She has a way of doing that.
You showed great courage today.
And a great love for the people you would rule.
My God tells me there is no greater love than the willingness to die for others.
Keep that up.
and you might just become High King after all.
There.
A man of his word is King Taldrig.
Two more western kings have pledged their fealty to Aurelius.
The warbands ride eastwards as we speak.
Aurelius's legend grows.
As does your army.
Now you must return to your brother.
Peridis and I ride north to Cathey.
You must ride alone.
Have I not proven myself to be a pleasant enough traveling companion?
Uther. you have proven yourself a cunning strategist and fiercely loyal to your brother.
But you must take caution.
For your loyalty could be your undoing.
More riddles?
Perhaps when we next see each other. we can pick up from where we left off.
I do admit I did underestimate you. steward.
I still think you should be flogged for impertinence.
It is not safe for you in Caer Gusten at all.
There must be another way.
There is no other way.
A gift.
for Hengist.
Safe travels. my son.
Our enemy grows stronger by the hour.
Every day. more ships cross the sea.
We are outmatched. five to one.
There is to be a new high king.
They are the ones who would oppose the Saxons now.
How many men are left for them to call upon?
Those boys are on their own.
I will not send the sons of my lords to die behind two undisciplined and untrained boys.
I have come to ask the northern lords to join with them.
Are you not the mighty Merlin?
Terrible to meet on the field of battle?
I've seen what you can do.